[1] “Efficient Heart Disease Prediction System”  Purushottam ,et ,al in 2017. Here using hillclimbing and decision tree algorithms .They used Cleveland dataset and preprocessing of data isperformed  before  using  classification  algorithms.  The   parameters  and  their   values  used  areconfidence. Its minimum confidence value is 0.25. The accuracy of the system is about 86.7%.
[2] “Prediction of risk in cardiovascular disease using machine learning algorithms,” N. S.Kurian, K. S. Renji, S. Sajithra, Y. R, F. A. Jenefer, and S. G, in 2022.,The use of informationdigging systems for prescient examination is significant in the wellbeing field since it enablesthem to confront ailments prior and accordingly spare individuals' lives through the expectationof fix. In this work, we utilized a few learning calculation K-Nearest Neighbour, Support VectorMachines, Logistic Regression, Naive Bayes, Random Forest to foresee patients with constantcardiovascular disappointment infection, and patients who are not experiencing this illness. Re-enactment results demonstrated that Logistic Regression classifier demonstrated its exhibition inforeseeing with best outcomes regarding precision and least execution time.
[3] “Effective  Heart  Disease  Prediction  Using  Hybrid  Machine  Learning  Techniques”Senthil Kumar Mohan et al in 2019. The  main objective is to improve 4 exactness incardiovascular problems. The algorithms used are KNN, LR, SVM, NN to produce an improvedexhibition level with a precision level of 88.7% through the prediction model for heart diseasewith hybrid random forest with linear model (HRFLM).
[4] “ECG signal classification using SVM with multi-feature,”  Z. Ge, Z. Zhu, P. Feng, S.Zhang, J. Wang, and B. Zhou, in 2019. This article describes the classifier of QRS complexes inthe ECG signal. They described all steps of the classification process. They used SVM methodfor classification and they used features derived from the time domain, frequency domain, time-frequency domain and time-scaling domain. Classification is realized into five types according tothe AAMI standard. They tested the classifier on the entire MIT-BIH Arrhythmia database. The benefit  of  this  study  is  comparing  the  types  of  features.  Types  of  features  were  comparedaccording to their suitability (it means classification accuracy using these features). Groups TM(Acc = 97.70%) and TS (Acc = 95.99 %) were successful. Overall, the most successful was a group of allfeatures (Acc = 99.17 %).
[5] “Heart Disease Prediction using Evolutionary Rule Learning” Aakash Chauhan et al, in2018. Data is directly retrieved from electronic records that reduce the manual tasks. The amountof services are decreased and shown major number of rules helps within the best prediction ofheart disease.
[6] “Classification of ECG arrhythmia using recurrent neural networks,” S. Singh, S. Pandey,U. Pawar, and R. Janghel, 2018. This work introduced a powerful artificial intelligent baseddiagnosis  model  for  ECG  arrhythmia  diagnosis  using 12  lead  UCI  ECG  signal database. Theyhave  ap- ECG Arrhythmia Classification Using Artificial Neural Networks 7 plied three wellknown  ANN  models  to  contrast  between the present  normal  signal  data  and  arrhythmic signaldata. Based on the contrast analysis of the obtained results RNN is the strongest ANN model forthe specified  ECG  arrhythmia  diagnosis  work.  It  is  shown  that  the  testing  accuracy  of  RNNmodel is better from other two ANN models. On RNN model we obtained classification testingaccuracy 83.1 % and sensitivity 86.67 % and specificity 66.67% respectively.
[7] “Prediction Disease Using Machine Learning Algorithms”  Sonam Nikhar et al in 2016.their research gives point to point explanation of Naïve Bayes and decision tree classifier that areused especially in the prediction of Heart Disease. result decided that Decision Tree has highestaccuracy than Bayesian classifier.
[8] “Analysis  and  classification   of   heart  diseases  using   heartbeat  features  and  machinelearning algorithms,” F. I. Alarsan and M. Younes, in 2019. This work has validated an abilityto classify heartbeats. Classification process is using some features of heartbeats and machinelearning classification algorithms with local host pc working using only one node, which arecrucial for diagnosis of cardiac arrhythmia. The developed GBT and RF models can classifydifferent ECG heartbeat types and thus, can be implemented into a CAD ECG system to performa  quick  and  reliable  diagnosis.  The  proposed  model  has  the  potential  to  be  introduced  intoclinical settings as a helpful tool to aid the cardiologists in the reading of ECG heartbeat signalsand to understand more about them.
[9] “SVM based methods for arrhythmia classification in ECG,” N. Kohli, N. K. Verma, andA. Roy, in 2010. This paper presents classification of arrhythmia in ECG database with variouspopular  and  widely  used  SVM  based  methods.  They  have  applied  some  well  knownclassification  techniques, viz., one-against-one, fuzzy decision function, and one-against-all, todistinguish between the presence and absence of cardiac arrhythmia and classify it in one of thesix groups. SVM is a strong classifier and using various methods it can deliver high performanceeven with  smaller learning data [4]. The obtained results clearly indicate OAA to be the mostpreferred method for arrhythmia classification in ECG. Seeing the potential to give dominatingresults over other methods, we are working towards improvisation of OAA method and in future,expecting to implement on various other standard datasets as well